README.md, before:

# Pepper tools

This repository contains different tools to manage the Softbank Pepper robot.

## Requirements
### C++

* Install **qibuild** following the instructions in:

     [http://doc.aldebaran.com/2-5/dev/cpp/install_guide.html#installation](http://doc.aldebaran.com/2-5/dev/cpp/install_guide.html#installation)

     Follow also the instructions there to prepare your worktree where you will have to install these pepper_tools.

* Install NAOqi SDK for C++ following the instructions in:

     [http://doc.aldebaran.com/2-5/dev/cpp/install_guide.html#installing-and-configuring-naoqi-sdk](http://doc.aldebaran.com/2-5/dev/cpp/install_guide.html#installing-and-configuring-naoqi-sdk)

### Python

* Install NAOqi SDK for Python following the instructions in:

     http://doc.aldebaran.com/2-5/dev/python/install_guide.html

### How to record a dataset for Pepper
* First you need to disable the _"Autonomous Life"_ to have full control on Pepper and to avoid background programs interfering with Pepper movements.   
  We use the **setstate** program with param ``disabled``
```bash
$ ./setstate <PEPPER_IP> <PEPPER_PORT> disabled
```
* After this, Pepper goes in posture _"Crouch"_. In order to have Pepper standing up, use the program **setposture** with param ``Stand``
```bash
$ ./setposture <PEPPER_IP> <PEPPER_PORT> Stand
```

Commit message:

README.md - Added instructions for running the code in Choreographe.

README.md, after:

# Pepper tools

This repository contains different tools to manage the Softbank Pepper robot.  
They are mainly developed in Python, although some tools provide also the equivalent C++ code.

## Requirements
Download the Python and C++ Naoqi SDKs and Choreographe if you want to test the tools in simulation from:  
https://developer.softbankrobotics.com/us-en/downloads/pepper
### Choreographe
For Choreographe use the license key provided there in the downloads link.  
If you have problems to use this key during the installation, select "Evaluation" mode and proceed with the installation.  
When you launch Choreographe for the first time you will be asked for a license key. The mentioned key should work at this step.  
When running the tools in simulation, select a Pepper virtual robot in Choreographe.  
Go to Edit -> Preferences -> Virtual Robot and check which is the current port used by NAOqi. 
### Python

* Install NAOqi SDK for Python following the instructions in:
     http://doc.aldebaran.com/2-5/dev/python/install_guide.html
### C++

* Install **qibuild** following the instructions in:

     [http://doc.aldebaran.com/2-5/dev/cpp/install_guide.html#installation](http://doc.aldebaran.com/2-5/dev/cpp/install_guide.html#installation)

     Follow also the instructions there to prepare your worktree where you will have to install these pepper_tools.

* Install NAOqi SDK for C++ following the instructions in:

     [http://doc.aldebaran.com/2-5/dev/cpp/install_guide.html#installing-and-configuring-naoqi-sdk](http://doc.aldebaran.com/2-5/dev/cpp/install_guide.html#installing-and-configuring-naoqi-sdk)

### How to record a dataset for Pepper
* First you need to disable the _"Autonomous Life"_ to have full control on Pepper and to avoid background programs interfering with Pepper movements.   
  We use the **setstate** program with param ``disabled``
```bash
$ ./setstate <PEPPER_IP> <PEPPER_PORT> disabled
```
* After this, Pepper goes in posture _"Crouch"_. In order to have Pepper standing up, use the program **setposture** with param ``Stand``
```bash
$ ./setposture <PEPPER_IP> <PEPPER_PORT> Stand
```
